Welcome back wonderful people.
Let's make bunny jump in this video.
We're going to add gravity and jumping to our going by the end this video bunny will be able to fall
and jump naturally and be able to tweak these values to get exactly the kind of behaviour you want to
do that there's various things we need to do.
The first is we need to have a scene to jump in.
We can't just run everything off the player so we can look a little bit about how players scenes and
instancing works.
We need something to jump on.
We can't have an empty scene.
We need an actual platform so we can make a temporary platform for now and duplicate that a couple of
times.
We need to have some gravity because we're using a kinematic body member kinematic body to do.
It doesn't have gravity built in so we're going to put that in at a jump speed.
We need to tell it when I press jump.
What does that mean.
How far do I go.
So let's get to it.
First thing they do is create a brand new scene and make this a key route node is going be a Node 2.
And let's call this level 1.
I'm not going to put a space in it.
And because we using God naming conventions the node is going to have a capital L capital L Level 1.
No spaces.
What goes in here.
Well I want to bring the player in if you want to save this for now.
The one is in a scenes folder.
Great.
I want to bring the player in.
How do I do that.
Next the ADD note is this little chain link icon.
That's an instance scenes.
I'm going to incense the player and he can see here this film clack thing that's a scene button.
If I press this I'll open that scene and the editor to make that very obvious I'm going to move the
player in the pliocene back to zero.
Zero.
Right so zerox are all white.
Now on the top left corner.
And back in scene.
It hasn't moved.
In other words I can work on the pliocene independently and instance it into the level scene instancing
scenes is one of the key features of gallows.
It's a bit like a prefab in unity but not quite.
Scenes can be anything from locations to players to sound effects to anything else you might want to
bring in.
Let's widen the view of this blue view as you might remember is what the camera can see.
I need a bit bigger so I'm going to make this.
1920 by 10.
80.
Because that's the resolution I'm using.
Schmick Tenet.
Not 180.
And much bigger get caught.
I will bring the put the player down a bit okay.
Make a very simple static body so under a level one that's make a static body.
Remember static body 2D not 3D.
And I'm on call this platform.
We will make different platforms later in the in the in this section.
But for now a temporary platform to test with now.
Once a collision but not another size collision I need to give a sprite So let's give it a Sprite and
under graphics G effects in environment as a whole bunch of things we can use.
I'm going to use this nice ground on scorched grass court collision.
Not this time.
Let's give it a different college and that's play with collision polygons zoom in and use this add polygon.
Let's skip this.
Let's take a look at the grid.
Sure that looks good.
Snap to grid animous start here.
OK is a very rough and ready but that's just so we can practice our platform.
I'm going to hide my collision shape and a quick reminder.
Know what let's stop napping degrade and get on the grid.
Quick reminder make sure you've got this.
I can hear I don't want to move the children of this of the platform.
The platform is here.
The Sprite is here.
That's no use to me right I need.
Just checking in right place.
I need to move the entire platform sir it's zoom out a bit.
Can I move this platform down here.
And I'm going to duplicate it a bit I can right click here and press duplicate or use the keyboard shortcut.
I'm on Windows so for me the people shall cut us control devious duplicate that a couple times one here
and one over here.
Awesome.
So right now we have three platforms with collision mashers.
What's going to happen if I press play.
Well nothing.
We still don't have gravity.
I haven't altered the script.
Oh you know what.
I also haven't told it what the means seniors.
That was a blessing.
There's got to project settings.
An under confident under run.
There it is.
Let's change the main seat player not player.
That was the thing I didn't want to do at level one much more like it.
And that's a bit better now because of a polygon him using moumin slide when I move into this when you
actually see it slide down so that's exciting but there's no gravity.
So let's go to our script and start making this a little neater as a neater.
What I mean is I don't want all of this code under physics process.
It's gonna get very crowded.
So stop putting gravity in here and falling and jumping and everything else it's going to be a mess
suck all of this is going to be a new function.
That function is going to call runs so let's make function run.
Add that skill and stuff in it.
In fact like you just say run immediately because when I want to do and let's move move and slide up
there because moving slide is going to happen at the end of all this.
Now I say that because there's two things to happen here I want falling to happen and I want jumping
to happen.
So what's going to happen.
Every frame is going to run if it can it's going to run the fall which we haven't made yet and jump
which Major let's put a jump.
No less but fall above run.
Just because that's going to happen whether or not you are running new function function call forward.
I practice my typing I promise.
OK.
What needs to happen.
Well every frame I want you to move down.
How do I do that.
Motion dot.
Why rembert motion is a vector too.
He looked at Motion X that means the first value of this vector to motion dot Y is a second value.
So what's going to happen.
Every frame.
I needed to move by gravity so plus equal gravity.
Plus equal.
Add the value of gravity you've seen this before.
I haven't defined gravity.
Gravity is going to be a constant.
I kind of glossed over this before.
A constant is a variable that we're not expecting to change in a script right.
Going to send it once and then it stays where it is.
I'm going to put all my constants in capitals to remind me when I'm using them and my gravity is going
to be what's a good value for gravity.
Let's make it 1000.
Now I want to make sure that no matter what the frame rate is I'm going to fall at the same pace some
leaves Delta.
Delta is the amount of time since the last frame.
So I've got a pass that in here as well as a function bracket's Delta equals motion dot y gravity tines
Delta.
Now you'll notice that we're already calling Delta and moving slide so we can work around that.
But before Pressplay let's take out jump because we're not actually using it which in a comment that
out for now.
OK.
Let's hit play and find out.
And the bunny felt to have jumped yet and it seems to work quite well.
Collisions a little higher can tweak down a minute.
But something worth noticing that fall was much faster than the first one.
Why is that.
Well the reason is we are adding to motion not why every frame.
You don't accelerate down even if you're standing on something.
So we need to make sure this only happens if you're not on the floor.
How can we figure out from the floor.
Well luckily we are using move and slide and move and slide.
Has that built in if we look at move and slide.
We have the first argument when we are using what you're moving by the linear velocity.
The second one is the floor normal floor normal is the up direction used to determine what is a wall
and what is a floor or a ceiling.
That's exactly what we want.
So let's set our constant form up.
I needed to tell what I know and only do it tell when it's a KNOW WHAT UP IS SO Lecter too.
Zero minus one.
OK.
Why minus one chauffeur moving up is a positive.
Well no we should talk about what these coordinance mean in God sir.
Let me bring up my screen sketch too.
In normal geometry we would calculate something like this.
So I want to find out how high you are.
I want to figure out what up is.
I would want to go this way that God doesn't work like that.
Gotta calculate from the top left so it'll look a lot more like this.
Now this is key.
You can't mistake I make all the time.
If I want to go up that is a negative y value right so negative 1 in the Y means go up by 1 pixel positive
y needs go down by 1 pixel is one of those things that's really easy to forget so just keep an eye on
them.
All right so let's use up value as in move and slide move by linear velocity so move by motion and up
is the second argument so we'll put that in there.
So if you're on the floor.
If is on the floor.
What do we need to do.
We need to set a motion dot y as 0.
Otherwise else.
Motion not why she grabs you time stops.
See what happens.
Okay I must stay on the floor for ages and now when I fall I'll fall.
It seems to be this before.
Great so will accelerate down until we hit the ground and then we get a reset and that's exactly what
we want.
Next up let's make a jump function because that's a platform game.
If you can't jump especially if you're running would jump in the same order we have it here so jump
is going to be underneath run.
Let's put in a few more things so we could see what.
There we go.
OK.
Here we go.
Function.
Jump.
If I press jump that's input.
What is action pressed you are high up.
So if I press jump.
What needs to happen.
Motion dot Y is going to equal jump underscores speed.
Well we haven't defined it yet so let's define that now.
Constant jump speed how fast you're jumping.
Let's set that to a core value what's it going to be that's going to be in this be good value so set
to a thousand.
It doesn't need to be a thousand that's down if negative a thousand remember.
OK so if I press space jump.
Look at that.
You know Matt gravity's a bit floaty isn't it let's give it some real gravity let's double that much
more than tripplett.
Let's let's look at crazy number 3 6 0 0.
I like the falling speed.
Let's make the jump a little higher Let's make jumping closer to 2000.
Too crazy.
That is too crazy.
OK.
Little s.
1750.
Now that is a bunny game.
But what am I going so high.
Ah I tell you I'm going to die because while I'm pressing it I'm going to keep jumping the long way
down the hirmand to go.
So that brings me to the challenge.
We don't want Bunny to be able to fly.
We want money to have a job.
So I'd like you to remove that air jump make sure that jump only works when you're on the floor.
Pause the video give it a go.
And then when you come back I'll show you my solution.
Welcome back.
How will I do that.
Well first off let's close the game back into the script.
What will I do.
I put it right here.
If you are on the floor.
And we pressed jump do that.
And that's it.
That's all we need to do now.
Let's jump for work.
Exactly there.
Now you can tweet these values to make exactly what you need.
And we zoom out the camera things later but that looks pretty good to me.
Look at that.
And that brings us to the end of this video.
In this video we've looked at instancing scenes so bringing smaller scenes into bigger scenes which
we can do as many times we like we've looked at changing what the default scene is what the main scene
in our game what happens where you press play.
We've looked at how x and y coordinates work godso and we've explored the is on floor function.
So great work.
And also the next video.